military expenditures in the United
States are the motor of the US economy
and they have been that ever since about
nineteen fifty it's worth reviewing the
history because that's where this crisis
I think comes from this sought for
needed crisis in early nineteen fifty
there was extreme worry at the highest
levels of the truman administration that
the united states was likely to return
to the conditions of the Great
Depression of the 1930s and so early in
nineteen fifty the decision was taken
that this domestic economic problem was
going to be solved through militarism
that is through rearmament in the united
states and through us financing of the
rearmament of Western Europe
particularly western Germany the
document which provides the analysis of
the world at that time and the US place
in the world and the internal situation
in in the United States was top secret
for 25 years in 1975 it was accidentally
or through error released and published
it is known as NSC 68 it was written by
NSC standing for National Security
Council it was written by Paul Mitzi and
it is a very detailed document the main
operative conclusion though was this is
it a quote from the document the United
States and other free nations were
within a period of a few years at most
experienced a decline in economic
activity of serious proportions unless
more positive governmental programs are
developed well the solution adopted
those more positive governmental
programs was expansion of the military
he mustered all the hype and emotion he
could and Truman said among other things
he said our homes our nation all the
things that we believe in are in great
danger this danger has been created by
the rulers of the Soviet Union in his
speech he also called for massive
increases in military spending for US
and European forces quite apart from the
needs in Korea
well there was no threat from the Soviet
Union they were still rebuilding from
the rubble of World War two in which
they had lost 20 million people they
were no threat but they were
manufactured from 1950 on from the time
of Korea on as a grave threat to the
United States and that became the
justification for this program which
truman through manipulation of the
korean war had been able finally to get
through Congress the result was that in
the first two years that is the two
years between 1950 and 1952 the US
military budget more than tripled from
13 billion dollars in nineteen fifty two
forty four billion dollars in 1952 and
during the same two-year period u.s.
military forces doubled to 3.6 million
people under arms this was the beginning
of the permanent war economy in the
united states the korean war by the way
went on for three more years after it
could have ended in the end 34,000 us
were dead more or less more than 100,000
wounded and the total casualty count was
in the millions it is worth recalling
that because from 1950 on the Soviet
threat was the justification the
justification for the permanent war
economy and the justification for these
enormous military spending expenditures